New Live Structure | Lucid Trading Help Center Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. ( [email&#160;protected] ) with Reserved Font Name "Inter".
 This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1. Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. ( [email&#160;protected] ) with Reserved Font Name "Inter".
 This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1. Skip to main content 

 Lucid Home 

 Lucid Home 

 Search for articles... 

 All Collections 

 Live Trading 

 New Live Structure

 New Live Structure
 LucidLive: Lucid&#x27;s live account program. Earn a live account after Payout 5, receive daily payouts, EOD drawdown, no daily loss limit, plus a one-time Live Bonus up to $4,500. Full rules inside.

 D 
 Written by Doug 
 Updated over a week ago 

 Table of contents

 Being Evaluated for Live

 Lucid&#x27;s risk team continuously monitors trader performance to determine when a trader is ready to transition to live futures trading. ​

 Traders enter the live review pool when one or more of the following conditions are met:

 After receiving the final payout (Payout 5) on their plan

 After being paid out a significant amount of capital lifetime

 If they have exceptional performance in sim funded

 If they have previously been moved live

 Payout 5 represents the maximum payout level, not a guaranteed minimum for live eligibility. All live transitions occur at the discretion of the Lucid risk team.

 Transition to Live

 When a futures trader is moved to live:

 Traders receive one live account per eligible funded account

 Each funded account must have received at least one payout to qualify

 All live accounts begin with:

 $0 starting balance

 Daily payouts

 End-of-day drawdown

 No daily loss limit

 Funded Account Size 

 Starting Live Drawdown 

 Max Live Contract Limit* 

 $25,000 

 $1,000

 2 minis or 20 micros

 $50,000 

 $2,000

 4 minis or 40 micros

 $100,000 

 $3,000

 6 minis or 60 micros

 $150,000 

 $4,500

 10 minis or 100 micros

 *Certain extremely volatile contracts have reduced position sizing to ensure traders do not exceed the live drawdown.

 Consistency Rules at Live

 There are no consistency requirements for live accounts. Once promoted from sim-funded to live, consistency rules no longer apply regardless of your account type (LucidPro, LucidFlex, LucidDirect).

 Locking the Live MLL

 Lucid Live accounts use an End-of-Day Drawdown (EOD Drawdown) system to calculate the Max Loss Limit (MLL).

 At the end of each trading session, the system calculates the account’s highest closing balance. 

 The MLL increases as the account balance grows, up to a defined point. 

 Once a trader generates live profits equal to their starting live drawdown, the Max Loss Limit locks at $100 and no longer moves. 

 If a trader requests a live payout before generating profits over the live drawdown, the Max Loss Limit locks to $100.

 Live Bonus

 The first time a trader is moved live under the new program, they may be eligible to earn a one-time bonus - provided they&#x27;ve never held a Legacy Live account.

 To earn the Live Bonus:

 Generate live profits equal to your starting live drawdown

 When achieved:

 The Live Bonus is paid out

 Funded Account Size 

 Live Target 

 Live Bonus 

 $25,000 

 $1,100

 $1,000

 $50,000 

 $2,100

 $2,000

 $100,000 

 $3,100

 $3,000

 $150,000 

 $4,600

 $4,500

 Example

 A trader is moved live with five $50,000 funded accounts:

 Each account starts with $0 balance and $2,000 drawdown

 The trader earns $2,100 in each account

 Lucid releases a $2,000 Live Bonus as a payout to the trader

 Trader received a $10,000 bonus payout

 The bonus may be earned on all accounts moved live on the first trip under the new system. However, traders moved live 2 or more times will not be eligible for the bonus on subsequent sets of accounts. The bonus is not eligible for traders with LucidMaxx status.

 Cooldown

 Traders who have been moved live may return to purchase a new evaluation after blowing a live account..

 Standard cooldown period: 2 weeks

 Traders who repeatedly blow live accounts due to reckless or "yolo" behavior may be subject to longer cooldowns at the discretion of the risk team

 LucidMaxx Status

 Select traders may eventually earn LucidMaxx status.

 LucidMaxx traders:

 May purchase the LucidMaxx evaluation 

 Receive access to daily, uncapped payouts and instant live capital

 Please refer to the LucidMaxx documentation for full details.

 LucidLive Account FAQ

 Do all funded prop accounts move live at once? Yes. All eligible funded prop accounts (with at least one payout) are moved when a trader transitions to live.

 What happens to remaining simulated prop accounts? All simulated prop accounts are closed when a trader is moved live. If a funded account is not moved live because it has 0 payouts, the evaluation cost of that account will be refunded. If you are not comfortable with evaluations being closed, do not keep evaluations in reserve.

 If I am live, can someone in my household still trade sim? No. If one household member is trading live, others may not trade simulated accounts.

 Can I hedge my live accounts? Absolutely not. Hedging live accounts is strictly prohibited by both Lucid and the CME. Violations will result in a permanent ban.

 Did this answer your question? 😞 😐 😃 

 Table of contents

 Lucid Trading Help Center